# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
in the Console.rb file

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
in the property.rb (class) file

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
Property.delete_all()
property1.save()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
id is only created when the property hits the database

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
the database assigns in sequential order and passes it back:
    @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
to prevent an error if there is no 'id'

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
some methods need to affect the whole database, some only need to affect a specific row

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
an array like object filled with hashes is returned, the id is accessed using:
    @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
Safety measure

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
id/address

Q11. What are their return values?
property hash
